[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Welcome back to "Break
Through Emotional Eating."
I'm Gay Hendricks.
In this episode, we're going to
learn about spiritual awareness
and your healthy body.
Looking back now, I think
that once having been fat
was the best thing that
could have happened to me.
That may seem hard to
believe, but I really feel it.
Being fat brought
me to an insight
that forever changed my life.
It goes right along with the
exploration of our emotions.
Down at the bottom of everything
is something very special--
a new undiscovered land.
I had in this moment a genuine
feeling of life changing
experience, and illuminated for
me the true nature of who I was
and also the true nature
of the universe around me.
And I now believe
that being fat gave me
the ultimate gift of a
spiritual dimension to my life
that I didn't really
have until that moment.
I also learned in that
moment that any emotion,
even unpleasant ones
such as anger and fear,
takes place against a
background of spirit.
If you let yourself feel the
emotion without judging it,
you'll feel your spirit
behind the emotion.
And the tangible
feeling of spirit
is a clear sweet sensation you
can actually feel in your body.
I was fat, so I
can remind myself
in every moment to relax
into the welcoming embrace
of spirit.
Now, I'd like to show
you two techniques that I
used to transform my life.
I call them the magic
keys because each of them
unlocks the treasure trove
I didn't even know I had.
And that's what I want
them to do for you.
Three big emotions account
for most relationship stress--
sadness, anger, and fear.
Other feelings, like
disappointment and boredom,
are usually mixtures of one
of those big three feelings.
Since they come up
frequently in life,
you can use them
as a powerful way
to reconnect you with
your organic spirituality.
There are two
sensations that we all
need to learn to recognize--
hunger and fatigue.
Knowing when you're
genuinely hungry
and when you're
genuinely becoming tired
is vitally important.
I'd like you to pick one of
those to focus on right now.
One of them would be fear.
One of them would be anger.
One of them would be sadness.
As you tune into that
sensation or emotion,
rest your full attention on it.
Don't judge the feeling as
good or bad, right or wrong.
Simply direct your attention
toward that feeling
or sensation.
After 10 seconds or so,
you'll notice the sensation
will begin to dissolve.
And it will be replaced
by a clear, sweet feeling.
And this new feeling
means that you
have honored the original
emotion or sensation
with enough awareness to
invite the emergence of spirit.
And you'll be able to
practice with these techniques
that behind every emotion
and in the center of us
all is that clear, sweet
sensation of spirit
in ourselves.
It's an actual thing you
can feel, in addition
to be able to think about.
What it's like you to do now,
over the next minute or two,
is to repeat this process
for several minutes
until you can actually feel
the sweet, clear sensation that
is behind all of your foreground
feelings that's just anger
or sadness or fear.
After you've
finished the process,
take a few moments to
record your experiences
in your journal.
Now, let's get very practical.
I'd like to give you the tool
I use throughout my journey
of losing more than 100 pounds.
Here's the background.
Early in life, you
may have been fed
things that have distanced
you from your spirit.
But now you're in charge of
what you put in your mouth.
No food is really good or
bad, or right or wrong.
The key is to discover
the foods that
nourish your spirit one bite at
a time and at your own speed.
I had to do that.
And you will need
to do that too.
And here's my promise to you
that as you eat more spirit
foods, those extra pounds
just seem like to melt away.
And your spirit begins to shine.
It's so simple.
When you eat a bite
of food, ask yourself,
will this feed my spirit?
Will this feed my spirit?
If your body tells you
yes, go ahead and eat it.
Now, when you're finding
foods that feed your spirit,
there's really no need to be
obsessive about it at all.
Whether you can do it once
a day or 100 times a day,
they always have the same
great practical value.
So again, be easy on yourself.
Be gentle and
loving on yourself.
Gradually, you'll learn to tell
the difference between foods
and amounts that nourish
your spirit, that
enable you to expand
into it, and foods that
bury your spirit
deeper within you,
making you contract
away from it.
You'll also notice when
you're eating something
to distract yourself
from something
you don't want to face.
So you'll naturally begin
to choose the perfect foods
to feed your spirit.
You can also use
this magic question,
will this feed my spirit,
for more than just the food
you eat.
For example, you may
have other life decisions
about how much exercise
you are going to do
or what career you're
going to pursue
or how to handle that personal
relationship situation.
This magic question,
will this feed my spirit,
can help you live it into a
spiritually and fulfilling
manner in all
areas of your life.
The magic question showed
me what foods to eat.
It showed me which
friends had to go
and which ones I
could hang out with.
It even showed me what changes
I needed to make in order
to have a successful career.
I used it on everything.
And it always worked.
It's become so much
a part of my life
that I no longer think I
have it as a key at all.
It's just the way things
need to work in order for me
to feel happy and creative.
I hope that it will serve
the same for you, as well.
In closing, I want to wish you
well in the exciting journey
to your healthy body.
I hope that the journey
we have taken together
will assist you in creating
the body and the life
that you, with all
your heart, most want.
It's been my honor and privilege
to share this information
with you and I wish you
the greatest success
in making all your
dreams come true.
[MUSIC PLAYING]